# How a request gets served


* Web Server is a web server that accepts and responds to Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) requests. Browsers such as Netscape™ Communicator communicate using several protocols including HTTP and FTP.
* The client (usually a browser) opens a connection to the server and sends a request.
* The server processes the request, generates a response, and closes the connection if it finds a Connection: Close header.
*The request consists of a line indicating a method such as GET or POST, a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) indicating which resource is being requested, and an HTTP protocol version separated by spaces.

* **To handle request**:

* 1. AuthTrans (authorization translation): Verify any authorization information (such as name and password) sent in the request.

* 2. NameTrans (name translation): Translate the logical URI into a local file system path.

* 3. PathCheck (path checking): Check the local file system path for validity and check that the requestor has access privileges to the requested resource on the file system.

* 4. ObjectType (object typing): Determine the MIME-type (Multi-purpose Internet Mail Encoding) of the requested resource (for example, text/html, image/gif, and so on).

* 5. Input (prepare to read input): Select filters that will process incoming request data read by the Service step.

* 6. Output (prepare to send output):  Select filters that will process outgoing response data generated by the Service step.

* 7. Service (generate the response): Generate and return the response to the client.

* 8. AddLog (adding log entries)

* 9. Add entries to log file(s).

* 10. Error (service): This step is executed only if an error occurs in the previous steps. If an error occurs, the server logs an error message and aborts the process.
